Definitions
-----------

.. _dfn-measure_date:

Collection Occasion - Measure Date
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The date the measure was given.

:Field name: measure_date

:Data type: date

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  For Date fields, data must be recorded in compliance with the standard format
  used across the National Health Data Dictionary; specifically, dates must be
  of fixed 8 column width in the format DDMMYYYY, with leading zeros used when
  necessary to pad out a value. For instance, 13th March 2008 would appear as
  13032008.
  
  If the date the measure was given is unknown, 09099999 should be used.
  
  - The measure date must not be before 1st January 2016.
  
  - The measure date must not be in the future.
  

----------

.. _dfn-reason_for_collection:

Collection Occasion - Reason
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The reason for the collection of the outcome measures on the identified Outcome Collection Occasion.

:Field name: reason_for_collection

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Episode start
  :2: Review
  :3: Episode end
:Notes:
  1 - Episode start
    Refers to an outcome measure undertaken at the beginning of an Episode of Care. For the purposes of the PMHC MDS protocol, episodes may start at the point of first Service Contact with a new client who has not been seen previously by the organisation, or a first contact for a new Episode of Care for a client who has received services from the organisation in a previous Episode of Care that has been completed.
  
  2 - Review
    Refers to an outcome measure undertaken during the course of an Episode of
    Care that post-dates Episode Start and pre-dates Episode End. An outcome
    measure may be undertaken at Review for a number of reasons including:
  
    - in response to critical clinical events or changes in the client’s mental
      health status;
    - following a client-requested review; or
    - other situations where a review may be indicated.
  
  3 - Episode end
    Refers to the outcome measures collected at the end of an Episode of Care.
  

----------

.. _dfn-collection_occasion_key:

Collection Occasion Key
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is a number or code assigned to each collection occasion of outcome measures. The Collection Occasion Key is unique and stable for each collection occasion at the level of the organisation.

:Field name: collection_occasion_key

:Data type: string (2,50)

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  Collection occasion keys are case sensitive and must be valid unicode characters.
  

----------

.. _dfn-episode_key:

Episode Key
^^^^^^^^^^^

This is a number or code assigned to each PMHC MDS episode. The Episode Key is unique and stable for each episode at the level of the organisation. This key must link to an existing episode within the PMHC MDS.

:Field name: episode_key

:Data type: string (2,50)

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  Episode Keys must be generated by the organisation to be unique at the provider
  organisation level and must persist across time. Creation of episode keys in
  this way allows clients to be merged (where duplicate Client Keys have been
  identified) without having to re-allocate episode identifiers since they can
  never clash.
  
  A recommended approach for the creation of Episode Keys is to compute `random
  UUIDs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier>`_.
  

----------

.. _dfn-key:

Key
^^^

A metadata key name.

:Field name: key

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_area:

NSPT Activity - Area
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Main area in which an activity or activities have been undertaken.

:Field name: nspt_activity_area

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Workforce related activities
  :2: Media and communication strategies
  :3: Community education and support services
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  If the activity occurs in multiple main areas then record each as a separate activity.
  
  **Categories**
  There are three broad areas covering activities undertaken as part of the NSPT.
  Definitions and examples of the work included under each are provided below.
  
  1 - Workforce Related Activities
      Activities that are provided to an organisation, in a workplace setting
      and/or to a group of service providers to enhance their capacity to prevent
      and/or respond to suicide.
  
      These include the following:
  
      * Implementing standards and other quality measures in suicide prevention.
      * Capacity building within an organisation
      * Training and delivery of programs to professionals, organisations and
        groups responding to or providing suicide prevention services
      * Building the capacity of other service providers to respond to the needs
        particular communities or groups of people, for example Aboriginal and
        Torres Strait Islander peoples, LGBTI people etc.
      * Organisational support, including awareness raising around issues of
        suicide prevention and/or postvention.
  
  2 - Media and Communication Strategies
      Activities where the primary focus is the production of content for
      dissemination via a form of media, and/or materials or activities that
      influence how the media reports and deals with suicide related matters.
  
      Work in this activity area includes the following:
  
      * Development of guidelines or other resources for use by media
      * Development of campaigns and messaging for all media types
      * Monitoring of media
      * Promotion of resources and services.
  
  3 - Community Education and Support Services
      Activities that are tailored for or targeted to a group of people living
      in the same place or having a particular characteristic in common.
  
      These include the following:
  
      * Community awareness raising, engagement and capacity in suicide prevention
      * Initiatives targeting at-risk populations, including people who have
        made a suicide attempt or who are at-risk for suicide, men aged 25-54,
        young people, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, veterans
        and their families, LGBTI people, and other Trial site target populations
      * Workplace based suicide prevention awareness and support services
      * Suicide awareness and prevention initiatives in schools and other educational institutions.
      * Support services for communities or groups of people affected by suicide
  
  *Out of scope*
  Core activities that are fundamental to the running of the organisation
  and/or the project are not within scope.
  
  These include the following:
  
  * Staff recruitment, training and development
  * Planning and development of agreements with other service providers
  * Consultation and liaison with stakeholders, and other activities to promote
    integration of project activities with other services
  * Service promotion
  * Governance, governance, including meetings and associated tasks
  * Reporting requirements
  * Evaluation related activities
  * Travel
  * Other administrative tasks
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_at_risk_population:

NSPT Activity - At-Risk Population
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This includes those population groups for which the activity has been tailored or to which it is specifically targeted.

:Field name: nspt_activity_at_risk_population

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :0: N/A (not an at-risk population group)
  :1: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
  :2: Veterans and/or their families
  :3: Young people (aged 16-25 years)
  :4: Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or intersex (LGBTI) people
  :5: Men aged 25-54 years
  :6: People aged 65 years and older
  :7: People who have previously attempted suicide
  :8: People with lived experience of suicide
  :9: Other
  Multiple space separated values allowed
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  
  0 - N/A (not an at-risk population group)
    This response must be selected where Activity - Target Group
    Options '1 - Generic or national' or
    '2 - Community, town or other geographical area' have been selected
  
  One or more of responses 1-9 must be selected where Activity - Target group
  Option '3 - People from an at-risk population' has been selected.
  More than one response can be selected if participants fit multiple categories.
  
  8 - People with lived experience of suicide
    People with lived experience of suicide includes carers, people who have experienced suicidal
    thoughts or attempts, and/or people bereaved by suicide.
  
  9 - Other
    This list reflects the main trial target groups, however if we haven’t
    specified your target group – please enter  9 -‘Other’ and then specify in
    the item: Activity At-Risk Population Other
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_at_risk_population_other:

NSPT Activity - At-Risk Population Other
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Description of other at-risk target group.

:Field name: nspt_activity_at_risk_population_other

:Data type: string (2,100)

:Required: no
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  If the response to “Activity – At-Risk Target Group” is entered as 9 – ‘Other’.
  
  **Notes**
  Briefly describe the target at-risk population, for example
  “men – fly-in-fly-out workers, men-farmers”.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_end_date:

NSPT Activity - End Date
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Day, month and year the Activity is expected to end.

:Field name: nspt_activity_end_date

:Data type: date

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  If an activity is completed in a single day enter the same end date as the start date.
  
  If an activity has multiple sessions enter the expected end date of the final session.
  
  If the end date of an activity is unknown enter 09099999.
  
  The period is to be in a valid format, DDMMYYYY, with leading zeros used when
  necessary to pad out a value - in compliance with the standard format used
  across the National Health Data Dictionary.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_focus:

NSPT Activity - Focus
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Focus of activities in terms of the aim of the activity.

:Field name: nspt_activity_focus

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Awareness raising and engagement
  :2: Implementation of standards and other quality improvements
  :3: Capacity building with service providers, organisations, communities or other groups to identify and/or support with people at risk or affected by suicide
  :4: Professional development and training
  :5: Information, services or other activities for at-risk individuals or groups of people at higher risk of suicide
  :6: Other
  Multiple space separated values allowed
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  More than one category may apply.
  
  **Notes**
  
  Examples of focus areas are:
  
  1 - *Awareness raising and engagement* – for example community events, media campaigns.
  
  2 - *Implementation of standards and other quality improvements* - for example, media guidelines on responsible reporting of suicide, creating health pathways.
  
  3 - *Capacity building with service providers, organisations, communities or other groups to identify and/or support people at risk or affected by suicide* – for example peer-worker training, QPR training, Roses in the Ocean training.
  
  4 - *Professional development and training* – for example GP training, frontline worker training
  
  5 - *Information, services or other activities for at-risk individuals or groups of people at higher risk of suicide* - for example providing psychoeducation resources.
  
  6 - *Other* –  any other target or reason for the activity not included above. Enter details of target or reason in the item ‘Activity – Target Focus Other’
  
  *Related items:* 
  Information on the workforce, group of people or population for which the activity has been tailored or to which it has been targeted is covered separately in the following items:
  
  * Activity – Target Group
  * Activity – Target Workforce
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_focus_other:

NSPT Activity - Focus Other
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Description of other activity focus.

:Field name: nspt_activity_focus_other

:Data type: string (2,100)

:Required: no
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  If the response to Activity – Focus is entered as 6 – ‘Other’.
  
  **Notes:**
  Briefly describe the focus of the activity.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_location:

NSPT Activity - Location
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Location or area in which the activity is undertaken or that it targets when not undertaken face to face.

:Field name: nspt_activity_location

:Data type: string

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  One of the following codes should be entered for state/territory/national focus,
  otherwise a valid Australian postcode.
  
  * 0000: Primary Health Network region
  * 0001: New South Wales
  * 0002: Victoria
  * 0003: Queensland
  * 0004: South Australia
  * 0005: Western Australia
  * 0006: Tasmania
  * 0007: Northern Territory
  * 0008: Australian Capital Territory
  * 0009: National coverage
  * 9999: Unknown/Not applicable
  
  **Reporting requirement**
  The location or target area is to be recorded for the Activity. Please record
  the one that most closely describes the location or target area.
  
  Enter a valid Australian postcode for activities conducted face-to face or
  where the location of those participating in an activity is known.
  
  * The full list of Australian postcodes is available from Australian
    Post at https://auspost.com.au/apps/postcode.html
  * Postcodes are deemed valid if they are in the range 0200-0299 and 0800-9999.
  
  Where an area includes more than one postcode enter the postcode of the
  bigger population area.
  
  *State/Territory focus*
  This should be used when the activity targets or is tailored for state wide
  use, for example a media campaign using state-wide media.
  
  *National coverage*
  National coverage should be used when the activity targets or is tailored
  for Australia-wide use or for members of a target population group irrespective
  of where they are located in Australia. For example, producing resources for
  ex-ADF members.
  
  *Unknown/Not applicable*
  If the activity is not conducted face-to-face or the location which is
  targeted is unknown enter 9999. For example, non-targeted social media campaigns
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_mode_of_delivery:

NSPT Activity - Mode of Delivery
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

How the Activity was delivered

:Field name: nspt_activity_mode_of_delivery

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Face-to-face
  :2: Telephone
  :3: Video-link
  :4: Online
  :5: Print media
  :6: Radio
  :7: Television
  :8: Other
  Multiple space separated values allowed
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  More than one mode of delivery may be applicable.
  
  1 - Face-to-face
      The activity is undertaken directly with participants– not by phone,
      email or online.
  
  2 - Telephone
      The activity is undertaken by phone or by teleconference when there are
      more than two participants.
  
  3 - Video-link
      The activity is undertaken using an electronic facility that enables
      audio-visual communication between participants in different locations.
  
      This includes various forms of videoconferencing, telepsychiatry and
      software applications, such as Skype, Zoom, Google Hangouts, WebEx and
      FaceTime
  
  4 - Online
      The activity is undertaken using the internet, but there is no visual
      or audio contact between participants.
  
      This includes the use of email, instant messaging, social media or
      interactions through a website or chatroom.
  
  5 - Print media
      Information produced as part of the activity are communicated or
      disseminated using newspapers, magazines, or any other written or
      pictorial form of communication such as posters, brochures, billboards etc.
  
  6 - Radio
      Information produced as part of the activity are communicated or broadcast by radio.
  
  7 - Television
      Information produced as part of the activity are communicated or broadcast by television.
  
  8 - Other
      Any other mode of delivery for the activity not included above. Enter details of mode of delivery in the item ‘Activity – Mode of Delivery Other’
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_mode_of_delivery_other:

NSPT Activity - Mode of Delivery Other
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Description of other activity mode of delivery.

:Field name: nspt_activity_mode_of_delivery_other

:Data type: string (2,100)

:Required: no
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  If the response to Activity – Mode of Delivery is entered as 8 – ‘Other’.
  
  **Notes:**
  Briefly describe the mode of delivery of the activity.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_name:

NSPT Activity - Name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Short descriptive title identifying the activity.

:Field name: nspt_activity_name

:Data type: string (2,100)

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  The Activity Name is to be provided by the PHN and is be consistent with what
  is used in the contract, work plans and performance reports.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_number_participating:

NSPT Activity - Number Participating
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Number of people who participated in or attended the Activity.

:Field name: nspt_activity_number_participating

:Data type: integer

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  0 - 30000000
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  Where no estimate of participation is possible enter 0.
  
  For all other activities include the number of participants/attendees who
  attended all, or part of, the Activity.
  
  **Notes:**
  Numbers may be estimated where true counts are unknown, or for media
  ‘audience reach’ data provided by an outlet can be included.  This may be
  necessary for many activities that are not undertaken face to face and when
  attendance is not formally recorded for larger events.
  
  For activities that may have multiple sessions, include participants even
  if they did not attend all sessions. 
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_start_date:

NSPT Activity - Start Date
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Day, month and year the Activity commenced.

:Field name: nspt_activity_start_date

:Data type: date

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  If an activity has multiple sessions enter the start date of the first session.
  
  The period is to be in a valid format, DDMMYYYY, with leading zeros used when
  necessary to pad out a value - in compliance with the standard format used
  across the National Health Data Dictionary.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_summary:

NSPT Activity - Summary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Brief description of the activity.

:Field name: nspt_activity_summary

:Data type: string (2,1000)

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  Where possible, the description should be consistent with that used in
  workplans and other documentation.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_tags:

NSPT Activity - Tags
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

List of tags for the NSPT activity.

:Field name: nspt_activity_tags

:Data type: string

:Required: no
:Notes:
  A comma separated list of tags.
  
  Organisations can use this field to tag records in order to partition them as
  per local requirements.
  
  Tags can contain lower case letters (or will get lowercased), numbers, dashes,
  spaces, and ``!``. Leading and trailing spaces will be stripped. e.g. ``priority!,
  nurse required, pending-outcome-1`` would all be legitimate.
  
  Tags beginning with an exclamation mark (!) are reserved for future use by the
  Department. e.g. ``!reserved, ! reserved, !department-use-only``.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_target_group:

NSPT Activity - Target Group
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Group of people, population or audience for which the activity has been tailored or to which it has been targeted.

:Field name: nspt_activity_target_group

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Generic or national
  :2: Community, town or other geographical area
  :3: People from an at-risk population
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  The main group to which an activity is targeted or has been tailored.
  
  **Notes**
  This item is only relevant for activities that have been targeted or tailored
  for a particular group of people, population or audience.  It is not intended
  to pick up data on the various types of people that might have, or actually,
  participated or used a product or service.
  
  Record the ONE option that most closely describes the target group.
  
  1 - Generic or national
    For activities targeted at whole of population.
  
  2 - Community, town or other geographical area
    For activities targeted at whole of population.
  
  3 - People from an at-risk population
    For activities targeted at an at-risk population. Where this option is
    selected then record the at-risk population in the
    'NSPT Activity - At-Risk Population' data item.
  
  *Related items*
  When activities target or are tailored for a particular workforce, sector or
  professional group, this is to be recorded separately using the following item:
  
  * NSPT Activity – Target Workforce
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_target_workforce:

NSPT Activity - Target Workforce
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Workforce, professional group or sector that the Activity targeted or with which participants were affiliated.

:Field name: nspt_activity_target_workforce

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :0: N/A not a workforce related activity
  :1: Community health organisations and related services
  :2: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander service providers and other organisations
  :3: Emergency or crisis response services
  :4: Primary Health Network commissioned services
  :5: School or other educational institution personnel
  :6: Police and law enforcement agencies
  :7: Media
  :8: Volunteer or community group providing services or support (including peer workers)
  :9: Other
  Multiple space separated values allowed
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  This is to be recorded for each workforce related activity.
  More than one workforce may be applicable.
  
  If the Activity is not workforce related enter 0.
  
  If target workforce is not listed, enter 9 ‘Other’ and describe the target
  workforce in the item ‘Activity - Target Workforce Other’.
  
  **Notes**
  This is relevant for all activities targeted at:
  
  * improving the knowledge about suicide and suicide prevention within a
    workforce group or profession
  * the ability of a workforce group or profession to recognise and respond
    to suicidal behaviour or risk the ability of a workforce group or profession
    to provide suicide prevention related services.
  
  *Related items*
  When activities target or are tailored for members of the general population
  or at risk populations, this is to be recorded separately using the following items:
  
  * Activity – Target Group
  * Activity – At-risk Target Group
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_target_workforce_other:

NSPT Activity - Target Workforce Other
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Description of target workforce.

:Field name: nspt_activity_target_workforce_other

:Data type: string (2,100)

:Required: no
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  If the response to “Activity – Target Workforce” is entered as 9 – ‘Other’
  
  **Notes:**
  Briefly describe the target workforce.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_activity_key:

NSPT Activity Key
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is a number or code assigned to each activity record associated with the commissioned organisation. The activity identifier is unique and stable for each activity within the Provider Organisation.

:Field name: nspt_activity_key

:Data type: string (2,50)

:Required: yes

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_consent_flag:

NSPT Episode - Consent 1: NSPT evaluation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Consent 1: for NSPT Individual Service data collection, linkage and sharing with evaluation.

:Field name: nspt_consent_flag

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Yes
:Notes:
  Provider statement:
  
  *Have you read the background information and do you agree to provide
  additional information for the National Trial data, for that data to be
  linked with the routine data collected by me [service provider], and for
  the University of Melbourne researchers to access the linked dataset? The
  dataset will not include your name or any other identifying information.*
  
  Client response options:
  
  1 - Yes
      The client has read the background information and agrees to provide
      additional information for the National Trial data, for that data to be
      linked with the routine data collected by me, and for the University of
      Melbourne researchers to access the linked dataset.
  
  **Note**
  Data where consent has not been given for NSPT Individiual Service data collection,
  linkage and sharing with evaluation must not be entered.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_consumer_survey:

NSPT Episode - Consent 2: for Consumer Survey
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Consent 2: sharing contact data for the Consumer Survey.

:Field name: nspt_consumer_survey

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Yes
  :2: No
  :3: Not required
:Notes:
  Provider statement:
  
  *Do you agree that your contact information, including your minimum dataset
  identifying number, can be provided to Strategic Data so they can invite you to
  participate in the consumer survey?*
  
  1 - Yes
      The client agrees that their contact information, including their minimum
      dataset identifying number, can be provided to Strategic Data so they can
      invite them to participate in the consumer survey.
  
  2 - No
  
  3 - Not required
      The client refused consent for NSPT evaluation.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_lifetime_suicide_attempt:

NSPT Episode - Lifetime suicide attempt and ideation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Has the client made a suicide attempt and/or experienced suicidal ideation in their lifetime?

:Field name: nspt_lifetime_suicide_attempt

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Suicide attempt
  :2: Suicide ideation, no attempt
  :3: Neither suicide attempt nor ideation
  :4: Not known
:Notes:
  1 – Suicide attempt
      A non-fatal, self-directed, potentially injurious behaviour with an 
      intent to die as a result of the behaviour; might not result in injury. 
  
  2 – Suicidal ideation
      Thinking about, considering, or planning suicide.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_other_services:

NSPT Episode - Other services used in the last six months
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

What other services has the client used in the past six months?

:Field name: nspt_other_services

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :0: None
  :1: General Practice
  :2: Medical Specialist Consulting Rooms
  :3: Private practice
  :4: Public mental health service
  :5: Public Hospital
  :6: Private Hospital
  :7: Emergency Department
  :8: Community Health Centre
  :9: Drug and Alcohol Service
  :10: Community Support Organisation NFP
  :11: Indigenous Health Organisation
  :12: Child and Maternal Health
  :13: Nursing Service
  :14: Telephone helpline
  :15: Digital health service
  :16: Family Support Service
  :17: School
  :18: Tertiary Education institution
  :19: Housing service
  :20: Centrelink
  :21: PHN psychological therapies
  :22: Veteran/defence support services
  :23: Other
  :99: Not stated
  Multiple space separated values allowed
:Notes:
  Multiple responses accepted.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_referral_made:

NSPT Episode - Referral made
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

What type of services were the client referred on to throughout this episode of care?

:Field name: nspt_referral_made

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :0: None
  :1: General Practice
  :2: Medical Specialist Consulting Rooms
  :3: Private practice
  :4: Public mental health service
  :5: Public Hospital
  :6: Private Hospital
  :7: Emergency Department
  :8: Community Health Centre
  :9: Drug and Alcohol Service
  :10: Community Support Organisation NFP
  :11: Indigenous Health Organisation
  :12: Child and Maternal Health
  :13: Nursing Service
  :14: Telephone helpline
  :15: Digital health service
  :16: Family Support Service
  :17: School
  :18: Tertiary Education institution
  :19: Housing service
  :20: Centrelink
  :21: PHN psychological therapies
  :22: Veteran/defence support services
  :23: Other
  :99: Not stated
  Multiple space separated values allowed
:Notes:
  Multiple responses accepted.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_sexual_identity:

NSPT Episode - Sexual Identity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Sexual Identity client self-identification.

:Field name: nspt_sexual_identity

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Lesbian, gay or homosexual
  :2: Straight or heterosexual
  :3: Bisexual
  :4: Something else
  :5: Don't know
  :6: Not stated
:Notes:
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_main_treatment_focus:

NSPT Episode - Suicide Trial Main Treatment Focus
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

What is the main focus of suicide prevention treatment being provided by the trial service?

:Field name: nspt_main_treatment_focus

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Suicide Mitigation
  :2: Postvention
  :4: Psychological therapy
  :5: Culturally specific assistance
  :6: Case management
  :7: Other support
:Notes:
  Describes the main focus of suicide prevention services to be delivered to the 
  client (or family member/carer) for the current Episode of Care being 
  delivered as part of the National Suicide Prevention Trial.
  
  1 – Suicide Mitigation
      When the focus of the service is to actively prevent the client’s suicide 
      primarily through the development of a plan with the client for when 
      they are experiencing suicidal thoughts, feelings, distress or are in 
      crisis. Includes suicide prevention plan or patient safety plan. 
  
  2 – Postvention 
      Services and support for those bereaved or otherwise affected by suicide.
  
  4 - Psychological therapy
      The treatment plan for the client is primarily based around the delivery of 
      psychological therapy by one or more mental health professionals.
  
  5 - Culturally specific assistance
      Culturally appropriate services delivered to, or on behalf, of an Aboriginal 
      or Torres Strait Islander client that cannot be described elsewhere.
  
  6 - Case management
      Immediate or ongoing psychosocial care and support.
  
  7 - Other support
      Any other main treatment focus of the suicide prevention services not included above. 
      Enter details of main focus in the item ‘Episode – Suicide Trial Main Treatment Focus Other’.
      
      
  *Please note:* '3 – Crisis Management' has been retired and will no longer be accepted as the the main focus.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_main_treatment_focus_other:

NSPT Episode - Suicide Trial Main Treatment Focus Other
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Description of other main focus of treatment.

:Field name: nspt_main_treatment_focus_other

:Data type: string (2,100)

:Required: no
:Notes:
  **Reporting requirement**
  If the response to Suicide Trial Main Treatment Focus is entered as 7 – ‘Other support’.
  
  **Notes:**
  Briefly describe the other main focus of suicide prevention services to be delivered.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_tags:

NSPT Episode - Tags
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

List of tags for the NSPT Episode.

:Field name: nspt_tags

:Data type: string

:Required: no
:Notes:
  A comma separated list of tags.
  
  Organisations can use this field to tag records in order to partition them as
  per local requirements.
  
  Tags can contain lower case letters (or will get lowercased), numbers, dashes,
  spaces, and ``!``. Leading and trailing spaces will be stripped. e.g. ``priority!,
  nurse required, pending-outcome-1`` would all be legitimate.
  
  Tags beginning with an exclamation mark (!) are reserved for future use by the
  Department. e.g. ``!reserved, ! reserved, !department-use-only``.
  

----------

.. _dfn-nspt_veteran:

NSPT Episode - Veteran
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Is the client a former defence force member (Australian or International)?

:Field name: nspt_veteran

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  :1: Yes
  :2: No
  :9: Unknown
:Notes:
  

----------

.. _dfn-organisation_path:

Organisation Path
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A sequence of colon separated Organisation Keys that fully specifies the Provider Organisation providing a service to the client.

:Field name: organisation_path

:Data type: string

:Required: yes
:Notes:
  A combination of the Primary Health Network's (PHN's) Organisation Key and the
  Provider Organisation's Organisation Key separated by a colon.
  
  Here is an example organisation structure showing the Organisation Path for each organisation:
  
  +------------------+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+---------------------+-------------------+
  | Organisation Key | Organisation Name             | Organisation Type                           | Parent Organisation | Organisation Path |
  +==================+===============================+=============================================+=====================+===================+
  | PHN999           | Test PHN                      | Primary Health Network                      | None                | PHN999            |
  +------------------+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+---------------------+-------------------+
  | PO101            | Test Provider Organisation    | Private Allied Health Professional Practice | PHN999              | PHN999:PO101      |
  +------------------+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+---------------------+-------------------+
  

----------

.. _dfn-sidas_item1:

SIDAS - Question 1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the past month, how often have you had thoughts about suicide?

:Field name: sidas_item1

:Data type: integer

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  0 - 10, 99 = Not stated / Missing
:Notes:
  0 = Never, 10 = Always
  

----------

.. _dfn-sidas_item2:

SIDAS - Question 2
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the past month, how much control have you had over these thoughts?

:Field name: sidas_item2

:Data type: integer

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  0 - 10, 99 = Not stated / Missing
:Notes:
  0 = No control, 10 = Full control
  

----------

.. _dfn-sidas_item3:

SIDAS - Question 3
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the past month, how close have you come to making an attempt?

:Field name: sidas_item3

:Data type: integer

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  0 - 10, 99 = Not stated / Missing
:Notes:
  0 = Not close at all, 10 = Made an attempt
  

----------

.. _dfn-sidas_item4:

SIDAS - Question 4
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the past month, to what extent have you felt tormented by thoughts about suicide?

:Field name: sidas_item4

:Data type: integer

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  0 - 10, 99 = Not stated / Missing
:Notes:
  0 = Not at all, 10 = Extremely
  

----------

.. _dfn-sidas_item5:

SIDAS - Question 5
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the past month, how much have thoughts about suicide interfered with your ability to carry out daily activities, such as work, household tasks or social activities?

:Field name: sidas_item5

:Data type: integer

:Required: yes

:Domain:
  0 - 10, 99 = Not stated / Missing
:Notes:
  0 = Not at all, 10 = Extremely
  

----------

.. _dfn-sidas_tags:

SIDAS - Tags
^^^^^^^^^^^^

List of tags for the collection occasion.

:Field name: sidas_tags

:Data type: string

:Required: no
:Notes:
  A comma separated list of tags.
  
  Organisations can use this field to tag records in order to partition them as
  per local requirements.
  
  Tags can contain lower case letters (or will get lowercased), numbers, dashes,
  spaces, and ``!``. Leading and trailing spaces will be stripped. e.g. ``priority!,
  nurse required, pending-outcome-1`` would all be legitimate.
  
  Tags beginning with an exclamation mark (!) are reserved for future use by the
  Department. e.g. ``!reserved, ! reserved, !department-use-only``.
  

----------

.. _dfn-value:

Value
^^^^^

The metadata value.

:Field name: value

:Data type: string

:Required: yes

----------

